# NFL-Draft-prospect-predictor-
There numerous variables that go in to the success of an NFL football player, therefore, no player is a sure thing. What if there was an in-depth website that would take all of those variables, use data from former and current players, and create a percentage chance success rate for each particular player? Factors in the calculation would include physical measurables, individual and team college statistics, intelligence, and character. All of these factors will be quantified, some using a scale form. 
NFL general managers and scouts spend countless hours watching player's game film, analyzing their mechanics and behaviors. They have to do this because they are about to invest in to a young man, but first they need to make sure they are making the right investment. There numerous variables that go in to the success of an NFL football player, therefore, no player is a sure thing. What if there was an in-depth website that would take all of those variables, use data from former and current players, and create a percentage chance success rate for each particular player? Factors in the calculation would include physical measurables, individual and team college statistics, intelligence, and character. All of these factors will be quantified, some using a scale form. College statistics will be broken down statistically, as well. If a player had more opportunity to produce more statistics due to his team's scheme it will be accounted for. Statistics can be misleading on paper, so we must adjust to produce the most accurate results. 

A major influence in a player's success is their draft round. A player selected in the 1st round will receive more opportunities and time to develop and succeed. Compared to a 6th round pick, who might not get enough chances to prove himself worthy of a roster spot. That being said, the website will allow users to enter in a "draft round" to adjust for opportunity that the player would likely receive. 

Past player profiles, statistics, and measurements will help lay the basis of the data. The success of those players will be graded based on the amount of years they played in the NFL, individual and team statistics, Pro Football Focus ratings, and more. 

This website will not solely predict the outcome of the NFL draft by any means, but it will be an extremely useful tool for NFL general managers and scouts to use, especially as a reference. I think this website could be used as the basis of trade negotiations and determining contract values. 

A great portion of the research required for this project has already been compltet, and is still currently being worked on, by Walt King. His work can be found through this link here: https://github.com/walt-king/NFL-draft-research . 

https://www.google.com/imgres?imgurl=https%3A%2F%2Fupload.wikimedia.org%2Fwikipedia%2Fen%2Fthumb%2Fa%2Fa2%2FNational_Football_League_logo.svg%2F1200px-National_Football_League_logo.svg.png&imgrefurl=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FNational_Football_League&docid=APdj1WWqX-tYYM&tbnid=ZfRPUzbAoZi8_M%3A&vet=10ahUKEwiXkv_MmPbhAhUuh-AKHaGdBTsQMwiDASgRMBE..i&w=1200&h=1649&client=safari&bih=744&biw=1434&q=NFL&ved=0ahUKEwiXkv_MmPbhAhUuh-AKHaGdBTsQMwiDASgRMBE&iact=mrc&uact=8
